README.md, before:

# TriliumNext Notes

![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/triliumnext/notes) ![GitHub Downloads (all assets, all releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/triliumnext/notes/total)

[English](./README.md) | [Chinese](./README-ZH_CN.md) | [Russian](./README.ru.md) | [Japanese](./README.ja.md) | [Italian](./README.it.md) | [Spanish](./README.es.md)

TriliumNext Notes is an open-source, cross-platform hierarchical note taking application with focus on building large personal knowledge bases.

See [screenshots](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/screenshot-tour) for quick overview:

<a href="https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/screenshot-tour"><img src="https://github.com/TriliumNext/Docs/blob/main/Wiki/images/screenshot.png?raw=true" alt="Trilium Screenshot" width="1000"></a>

## ⚠️ Why TriliumNext?

[The original Trilium project is in maintenance mode](https://github.com/zadam/trilium/issues/4620)

### Migrating from Trilium?

There are no special migration steps to migrate from a zadam/Trilium instance to a TriliumNext/Notes instance. Just upgrade your Trilium instance to the latest version and [install TriliumNext/Notes as usual](#-installation) 

## 💬 Discuss with us

Feel free to join our official conversations. We would love to hear what features, suggestions, or issues you may have!

- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#triliumnext:matrix.org) (For synchronous discussions)
  - The `General` Matrix room is also bridged to [XMPP](xmpp:discuss@trilium.thisgreat.party?join)
- [Github Discussions](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/discussions) (For Asynchronous discussions)
- [Wiki](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/) (For common how-to questions and user guides)

## 🎁 Features

* Notes can be arranged into arbitrarily deep tree. Single note can be placed into multiple places in the tree (see [cloning](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/cloning-notes))
* Rich WYSIWYG note editing including e.g. tables, images and [math](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/text-notes) with markdown [autoformat](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/text-notes#autoformat)
* Support for editing [notes with source code](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/code-notes), including syntax highlighting
* Fast and easy [navigation between notes](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/note-navigation), full text search and [note hoisting](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/note-hoisting)
* Seamless [note versioning](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/note-revisions)
* Note [attributes](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/attributes) can be used for note organization, querying and advanced [scripting](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/scripts)
* [Synchronization](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/synchronization) with self-hosted sync server
  * there's a [3rd party service for hosting synchronisation server](https://trilium.cc/paid-hosting)
* [Sharing](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/sharing) (publishing) notes to public internet
* Strong [note encryption](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/protected-notes) with per-note granularity
* Sketching diagrams with built-in Excalidraw (note type "canvas")
* [Relation maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/relation-map) and [link maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/link-map) for visualizing notes and their relations
* [Scripting](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/scripts) - see [Advanced showcases](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/advanced-showcases)
* [REST API](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/etapi) for automation
* Scales well in both usability and performance upwards of 100 000 notes
* Touch optimized [mobile frontend](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/mobile-frontend) for smartphones and tablets
* [Night theme](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/themes)
* [Evernote](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/evernote-import) and [Markdown import & export](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/markdown)
* [Web Clipper](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/web-clipper) for easy saving of web content

✨ Check out the following third-party resources/communities for more TriliumNext related goodies:

- [awesome-trilium](https://github.com/Nriver/awesome-trilium) for 3rd party themes, scripts, plugins and more.
- [TriliumRocks!](https://trilium.rocks/) for tutorials, guides, and much more.

## 🏗 Installation

### Desktop

To use TriliumNext on your desktop machine (Linux, MacOS, and Windows) you have a few options:

* Download the binary release for your platform from the [latest release page](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/releases/latest), unzip the package and run the ```trilium``` executable.
* Access TriliumNext via the web interface of a server installation (see below)
    * Currently only the latest versions of Chrome & Firefox are supported (and tested).
* (Coming Soon) TriliumNext will also be provided as a Flatpak

### Mobile

To use TriliumNext on a mobile device:

* Use a mobile web browser to access the mobile interface of a server installation (see below)
* Use of a mobile app is not yet supported ([see here](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/issues/72)) to track mobile improvements.

### Server

To install TriliumNext on your own server (including via Docker from [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/triliumnext/notes)) follow [the server installation docs](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/server-installation).

## 📝 Documentation

[See wiki for complete list of documentation pages.](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs)

You can also read [Patterns of personal knowledge base](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/patterns-of-personal-knowledge) to get some inspiration on how you might use TriliumNext.

## 💻 Contribute

### Code

```shell
git clone https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes.git
cd Notes
npm install
npm run start-server
```

### Documentation

Head on over to our [Docs repo](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Docs)

## 👏 Shoutouts

* [CKEditor 5](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5) - best WYSIWYG editor on the market, very interactive and listening team
* [FancyTree](https://github.com/mar10/fancytree) - very feature rich tree library without real competition. TriliumNext Notes would not be the same without it.
* [CodeMirror](https://github.com/codemirror/CodeMirror) - code editor with support for huge amount of languages
* [jsPlumb](https://github.com/jsplumb/jsplumb) - visual connectivity library without competition. Used in [relation maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/Relation-map) and [link maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/Link-map)

## 🤝 Support

You can support the original Trilium developer using GitHub Sponsors, [PayPal](https://paypal.me/za4am) or Bitcoin (bitcoin:bc1qv3svjn40v89mnkre5vyvs2xw6y8phaltl385d2).
Support for the TriliumNext organization will be possible in the near future.

## 🔑 License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Update README.md for incremented sync version

README.md, after:

# TriliumNext Notes

![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/triliumnext/notes) ![GitHub Downloads (all assets, all releases)](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/triliumnext/notes/total)

[English](./README.md) | [Chinese](./README-ZH_CN.md) | [Russian](./README.ru.md) | [Japanese](./README.ja.md) | [Italian](./README.it.md) | [Spanish](./README.es.md)

TriliumNext Notes is an open-source, cross-platform hierarchical note taking application with focus on building large personal knowledge bases.

See [screenshots](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/screenshot-tour) for quick overview:

<a href="https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/screenshot-tour"><img src="https://github.com/TriliumNext/Docs/blob/main/Wiki/images/screenshot.png?raw=true" alt="Trilium Screenshot" width="1000"></a>

## ⚠️ Why TriliumNext?

[The original Trilium project is in maintenance mode](https://github.com/zadam/trilium/issues/4620)

### Migrating from Trilium?

There are no special migration steps to migrate from a zadam/Trilium instance to a TriliumNext/Notes instance. Just upgrade your Trilium instance to the latest version and [install TriliumNext/Notes as usual](#-installation) 

Versions up to and including [v.90.4](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/releases/tag/v0.90.4) are compatible with the latest zadam/trilium version of [v0.63.7](https://github.com/zadam/trilium/releases/tag/v0.63.7). Any later versions of TriliumNext have their sync versions incremented.

## 💬 Discuss with us

Feel free to join our official conversations. We would love to hear what features, suggestions, or issues you may have!

- [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#triliumnext:matrix.org) (For synchronous discussions)
  - The `General` Matrix room is also bridged to [XMPP](xmpp:discuss@trilium.thisgreat.party?join)
- [Github Discussions](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/discussions) (For Asynchronous discussions)
- [Wiki](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/) (For common how-to questions and user guides)

## 🎁 Features

* Notes can be arranged into arbitrarily deep tree. Single note can be placed into multiple places in the tree (see [cloning](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/cloning-notes))
* Rich WYSIWYG note editing including e.g. tables, images and [math](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/text-notes) with markdown [autoformat](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/text-notes#autoformat)
* Support for editing [notes with source code](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/code-notes), including syntax highlighting
* Fast and easy [navigation between notes](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/note-navigation), full text search and [note hoisting](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/note-hoisting)
* Seamless [note versioning](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/note-revisions)
* Note [attributes](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/attributes) can be used for note organization, querying and advanced [scripting](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/scripts)
* [Synchronization](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/synchronization) with self-hosted sync server
  * there's a [3rd party service for hosting synchronisation server](https://trilium.cc/paid-hosting)
* [Sharing](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/sharing) (publishing) notes to public internet
* Strong [note encryption](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/protected-notes) with per-note granularity
* Sketching diagrams with built-in Excalidraw (note type "canvas")
* [Relation maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/relation-map) and [link maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/link-map) for visualizing notes and their relations
* [Scripting](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/scripts) - see [Advanced showcases](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/advanced-showcases)
* [REST API](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/etapi) for automation
* Scales well in both usability and performance upwards of 100 000 notes
* Touch optimized [mobile frontend](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/mobile-frontend) for smartphones and tablets
* [Night theme](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/themes)
* [Evernote](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/evernote-import) and [Markdown import & export](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/markdown)
* [Web Clipper](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/web-clipper) for easy saving of web content

✨ Check out the following third-party resources/communities for more TriliumNext related goodies:

- [awesome-trilium](https://github.com/Nriver/awesome-trilium) for 3rd party themes, scripts, plugins and more.
- [TriliumRocks!](https://trilium.rocks/) for tutorials, guides, and much more.

## 🏗 Installation

### Desktop

To use TriliumNext on your desktop machine (Linux, MacOS, and Windows) you have a few options:

* Download the binary release for your platform from the [latest release page](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/releases/latest), unzip the package and run the ```trilium``` executable.
* Access TriliumNext via the web interface of a server installation (see below)
    * Currently only the latest versions of Chrome & Firefox are supported (and tested).
* (Coming Soon) TriliumNext will also be provided as a Flatpak

### Mobile

To use TriliumNext on a mobile device:

* Use a mobile web browser to access the mobile interface of a server installation (see below)
* Use of a mobile app is not yet supported ([see here](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes/issues/72)) to track mobile improvements.

### Server

To install TriliumNext on your own server (including via Docker from [Dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/triliumnext/notes)) follow [the server installation docs](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/server-installation).

## 📝 Documentation

[See wiki for complete list of documentation pages.](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs)

You can also read [Patterns of personal knowledge base](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/patterns-of-personal-knowledge) to get some inspiration on how you might use TriliumNext.

## 💻 Contribute

### Code

```shell
git clone https://github.com/TriliumNext/Notes.git
cd Notes
npm install
npm run start-server
```

### Documentation

Head on over to our [Docs repo](https://github.com/TriliumNext/Docs)

## 👏 Shoutouts

* [CKEditor 5](https://github.com/ckeditor/ckeditor5) - best WYSIWYG editor on the market, very interactive and listening team
* [FancyTree](https://github.com/mar10/fancytree) - very feature rich tree library without real competition. TriliumNext Notes would not be the same without it.
* [CodeMirror](https://github.com/codemirror/CodeMirror) - code editor with support for huge amount of languages
* [jsPlumb](https://github.com/jsplumb/jsplumb) - visual connectivity library without competition. Used in [relation maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/Relation-map) and [link maps](https://triliumnext.github.io/Docs/Wiki/Link-map)

## 🤝 Support

You can support the original Trilium developer using GitHub Sponsors, [PayPal](https://paypal.me/za4am) or Bitcoin (bitcoin:bc1qv3svjn40v89mnkre5vyvs2xw6y8phaltl385d2).
Support for the TriliumNext organization will be possible in the near future.

## 🔑 License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
