# Attribute Reference
## Labels

<figure class="table" style="width:100%;"><table class="ck-table-resized"><colgroup><col style="width:33.82%;"><col style="width:66.18%;"></colgroup><thead><tr><th>Label</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>disableVersioning</code></td><td>Disables automatic creation of&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Notes/Note%20Revisions.md">Note Revisions</a>. Useful for e.g. large, but unimportant notes - e.g. large JS libraries used for scripting.</td></tr><tr><td><code>calendarRoot</code></td><td>Marks the note which should be used as root for&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../Advanced%20Showcases/Day%20Notes.md">Day Notes</a>. Only one should be marked as such.</td></tr><tr><td><code>archived</code></td><td>Hides notes from default search results and dialogs. Archived notes can optionally be hidden in the&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/UI%20Elements/Note%20Tree.md">Note Tree</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>excludeFromExport</code></td><td>Notes (with their sub-tree) won't be included when exporting.</td></tr><tr><td><code>run</code></td><td><p>Defines on which events script should run. Possible values are:</p><ul><li><code>frontendStartup</code> - when Trilium frontend starts up (or is refreshed), but not on mobile.</li><li><code>mobileStartup</code> - when Trilium frontend starts up (or is refreshed), on mobile.</li><li><code>backendStartup</code> - when Trilium backend starts up</li><li><code>hourly</code> - run once an hour. You can use additional label <code>runAtHour</code> to specify at which hour.</li><li><code>daily</code> - run once a day</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnInstance</code></td><td>Define which trilium instance should run this on. Default to all instances.</td></tr><tr><td><code>runAtHour</code></td><td>On which hour should this run. Should be used together with <code>#run=hourly</code>. Can be defined multiple times for more runs during the day.</td></tr><tr><td><code>disableInclusion</code></td><td>Scripts with this label won't be included into parent script execution.</td></tr><tr><td><code>sorted</code></td><td><p>Keeps child notes sorted by title alphabetically.</p><p>When given a value, it will sort by the value of another label instead. If one of the child notes doesn't have the specified label, the title will be used for them instead.</p></td></tr><tr><td><code>sortDirection</code></td><td><p>If <code>sorted</code> is applied, specifies the direction of the sort:</p><ul><li><code>ASC</code>, ascending (default)</li><li><code>DESC</code>, descending</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>sortFoldersFirst</code></td><td>If <code>sorted</code> is applied, folders (notes with children) will be sorted as a group at the top, and the rest will be sorted.</td></tr><tr><td><code>top</code></td><td>If <code>sorted</code> is applied to the parent note, keeps given note on top in its parent.</td></tr><tr><td><code>hidePromotedAttributes</code></td><td>Hide&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="Promoted%20Attributes.md">Promoted Attributes</a>&nbsp;on this note.</td></tr><tr><td><code>readOnly</code></td><td>Marks a note to be always be <a href="../../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Notes/Read-Only%20Notes.md">read-only</a>, if it's a supported note (text, code, mermaid).</td></tr><tr><td><code>autoReadOnlyDisabled</code></td><td>text/code notes can be set automatically into read mode when they are too large. You can disable this behavior on per-note basis by adding this label to the note</td></tr><tr><td><code>appCss</code></td><td>marks CSS notes which are loaded into the Trilium application and can thus be used to modify Trilium's looks.</td></tr><tr><td><code>appTheme</code></td><td>marks CSS notes which are full Trilium themes and are thus available in Trilium options.</td></tr><tr><td><code>appThemeBase</code></td><td>Set to <code>next</code>, <code>next-light</code>, or <code>next-dark</code> to use the corresponding TriliumNext theme (auto, light or dark) as the base for a custom theme, instead of the legacy one. See&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Theme%20development/Customize%20the%20Next%20theme.md">Customize the Next theme</a>&nbsp;for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><code>cssClass</code></td><td>value of this label is then added as CSS class to the node representing given note in the tree. This can be useful for advanced theming. Can be used in template notes.</td></tr><tr><td><code>iconClass</code></td><td>value of this label is added as a CSS class to the icon on the tree which can help visually distinguish the notes in the tree. Example might be bx bx-home - icons are taken from boxicons. Can be used in template notes.</td></tr><tr><td><code>pageSize</code></td><td>number of items per page in note listing</td></tr><tr><td><code>customRequestHandler</code></td><td>See&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../Custom%20Request%20Handler.md">Custom Request Handler</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>customResourceProvider</code></td><td>See&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../Custom%20Resource%20Providers.md">Custom Resource Providers</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>widget</code></td><td>marks this note as a custom widget which will be added to the Trilium component tree. See&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Note%20Types/Code/Custom%20Widgets.md">Custom Widgets</a>&nbsp;for more information.</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspace</code></td><td>marks this note as a workspace which allows easy hoisting</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspaceIconClass</code></td><td>defines box icon CSS class which will be used in tab when hoisted to this note</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspaceTabBackgroundColor</code></td><td>CSS color used in the note tab when hoisted to this note</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspaceCalendarRoot</code></td><td>Defines per-workspace calendar root</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspaceTemplate</code></td><td>This note will appear in the selection of available template when creating new note, but only when hoisted into a workspace containing this template</td></tr><tr><td><code>searchHome</code></td><td>new search notes will be created as children of this note</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspaceSearchHome</code></td><td>new search notes will be created as children of this note when hoisted to some ancestor of this workspace note</td></tr><tr><td><code>inbox</code></td><td>default inbox location for new notes - when you create a note using <em>new note</em> button in the sidebar, notes will be created as child notes in the note marked as with <code>#inbox</code> label.</td></tr><tr><td><code>workspaceInbox</code></td><td>default inbox location for new notes when hoisted to some ancestor of this workspace note</td></tr><tr><td><code>sqlConsoleHome</code></td><td>default location of&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="#root/_hidden/_help/_help_tC7s2alapj8V/_help_wX4HbRucYSDD/_help_oyIAJ9PvvwHX/_help_YKWqdJhzi2VY">SQL Console</a>&nbsp;notes</td></tr><tr><td><code>bookmarkFolder</code></td><td>note with this label will appear in bookmarks as folder (allowing access to its children)</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareHiddenFromTree</code></td><td>this note is hidden from left navigation tree, but still accessible with its URL</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareExternalLink</code></td><td>note will act as a link to an external website in the share tree</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareAlias</code></td><td>define an alias using which the note will be available under <code>https://your_trilium_host/share/[your_alias]</code></td></tr><tr><td><code>shareOmitDefaultCss</code></td><td>default share page CSS will be omitted. Use when you make extensive styling changes.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareRoot</code></td><td>marks note which is served on /share root.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareDescription</code></td><td>define text to be added to the HTML meta tag for description</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareRaw</code></td><td>note will be served in its raw format, without HTML wrapper</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareDisallowRobotIndexing</code></td><td>will forbid robot indexing of this note by setting the <code>X-Robots-Tag: noindex</code> HTTP header.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareCredentials</code></td><td>require credentials to access this shared note. Value is expected to be in format <code>username:password</code>. Don't forget to make this inheritable to apply to child-notes/images.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareIndex</code></td><td>note with this label will list all roots of shared notes</td></tr><tr><td><code>displayRelations</code></td><td>comma delimited names of relations which should be displayed. All other ones will be hidden.</td></tr><tr><td><code>hideRelations</code></td><td>comma delimited names of relations which should be hidden. All other ones will be displayed.</td></tr><tr><td><code>titleTemplate</code></td><td><p>Default title of notes created as children of this note. This value is evaluated as a JavaScript string and thus can be enriched with dynamic content via the injected <code>now</code> and <code>parentNote</code> variables.</p><p>Examples:</p><ul><li><code>${parentNote.getLabel('authorName')}'s literary works</code></li><li><code>Log for ${now.format('YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss')}</code></li><li><code>${parentNote.title}</code> to mirror the parent's template.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td><code>template</code></td><td>This note will appear in the selection of available template when creating new note</td></tr><tr><td><code>toc</code></td><td>Controls the display of the&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Note%20Types/Text/Table%20of%20contents.md">Table of contents</a>&nbsp;for a given note. <code>#toc</code> or <code>#toc=show</code> to always display the table of contents, <code>#toc=false</code> to always hide it.</td></tr><tr><td><code>color</code></td><td>defines color of the note in note tree, links etc. Use any valid CSS color value like 'red' or #a13d5f</td></tr><tr><td><code>keyboardShortcut</code></td><td>Defines a keyboard shortcut which will immediately jump to this note. Example: 'ctrl+alt+e'. Requires frontend reload for the change to take effect.</td></tr><tr><td><code>keepCurrentHoisting</code></td><td>Opening this link won't change hoisting even if the note is not displayable in the current hoisted subtree.</td></tr><tr><td><code>executeButton</code></td><td>Title of the button which will execute the current code note</td></tr><tr><td><code>executeDescription</code></td><td>Longer description of the current code note displayed together with the execute button</td></tr><tr><td><code>excludeFromNoteMap</code></td><td>Notes with this label will be hidden from the&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Note%20Types/Note%20Map.md">Note Map</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>newNotesOnTop</code></td><td>New notes will be created at the top of the parent note, not on the bottom.</td></tr><tr><td><code>hideHighlightWidget</code></td><td>Hide Highlight List widget</td></tr><tr><td><code>printLandscape</code></td><td>When exporting to PDF, changes the orientation of the page to landscape instead of portrait.</td></tr><tr><td><code>printPageSize</code></td><td>When exporting to PDF, changes the size of the page. Supported values: <code>A0</code>, <code>A1</code>, <code>A2</code>, <code>A3</code>, <code>A4</code>, <code>A5</code>, <code>A6</code>, <code>Legal</code>, <code>Letter</code>, <code>Tabloid</code>, <code>Ledger</code>.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

## Relations

<figure class="table" style="width:100%;"><table class="ck-table-resized"><colgroup><col style="width:33.95%;"><col style="width:66.05%;"></colgroup><thead><tr><th>Label</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><code>runOnNoteCreation</code></td><td>executes when note is created on backend. Use this relation if you want to run the script for all notes created under a specific subtree. In that case, create it on the subtree root note and make it inheritable. A new note created within the subtree (any depth) will trigger the script.</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnChildNoteCreation</code></td><td>executes when new note is created under the note where this relation is defined</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnNoteTitleChange</code></td><td>executes when note title is changed (includes note creation as well)</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnNoteContentChange</code></td><td>executes when note content is changed (includes note creation as well).</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnNoteChange</code></td><td>executes when note is changed (includes note creation as well). Does not include content changes</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnNoteDeletion</code></td><td>executes when note is being deleted</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnBranchCreation</code></td><td>executes when a branch is created. Branch is a link between parent note and child note and is created e.g. when cloning or moving note.</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnBranchChange</code></td><td>executes when a branch is updated.</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnBranchDeletion</code></td><td>executes when a branch is deleted. Branch is a link between parent note and child note and is deleted e.g. when moving note (old branch/link is deleted).</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnAttributeCreation</code></td><td>executes when new attribute is created for the note which defines this relation</td></tr><tr><td><code>runOnAttributeChange</code></td><td>executes when the attribute is changed of a note which defines this relation. This is triggered also when the attribute is deleted</td></tr><tr><td><code>template</code></td><td>note's attributes will be inherited even without a parent-child relationship, note's content and subtree will be added to instance notes if empty. See documentation for details.</td></tr><tr><td><code>inherit</code></td><td>note's attributes will be inherited even without a parent-child relationship. See&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../Templates.md">Templates</a>&nbsp;for a similar concept. See&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="Attribute%20Inheritance.md">Attribute Inheritance</a>&nbsp;in the documentation.</td></tr><tr><td><code>renderNote</code></td><td>notes of type&nbsp;<a class="reference-link" href="../../Note%20Types/Render%20Note.md">Render Note</a>&nbsp;will be rendered using a code note (HTML or script) and it is necessary to point using this relation to which note should be rendered</td></tr><tr><td><code>widget_relation</code></td><td>target of this relation will be executed and rendered as a widget in the sidebar</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareCss</code></td><td>CSS note which will be injected into the share page. CSS note must be in the shared sub-tree as well. Consider using <code>share_hidden_from_tree</code> and <code>share_omit_default_css</code> as well.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareJs</code></td><td>JavaScript note which will be injected into the share page. JS note must be in the shared sub-tree as well. Consider using <code>share_hidden_from_tree</code>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareTemplate</code></td><td>Embedded JavaScript note that will be used as the template for displaying the shared note. Falls back to the default template. Consider using <code>share_hidden_from_tree</code>.</td></tr><tr><td><code>shareFavicon</code></td><td>Favicon note to be set in the shared page. Typically you want to set it to share root and make it inheritable. Favicon note must be in the shared sub-tree as well. Consider using <code>share_hidden_from_tree</code>.</td></tr></tbody></table></figure>

*   `disableVersioning`: Disables automatic versioning, ideal for large, unimportant notes like script libraries
*   `versioningLimit`: Used to limit the number of revisions for a single note
*   `calendarRoot`: Marks the note as the root for <a class="reference-link" href="../Advanced%20Showcases/Day%20Notes.md">Day Notes</a>. Only one note should carry this label.
*   `excludeFromExport`: Excludes notes and their subtrees from export operations
*   `run`: Specifies events to trigger scripts (e.g., `frontendStartup`, `hourly`)
*   `runAtHour`: Defines specific hours for scripts to run, used with `#run=hourly`
*   `disableInclusion`: Prevents a script from being included in parent script executions
*   `sorted`: Automatically sorts child notes alphabetically by title
*   `top`: Keeps the note at the top of its parent's list, useful with `sorted`
*   `hidePromotedAttributes`: Hides certain attributes in the note's display
*   `readOnly`: Sets the note to read-only mode, applicable to text and code notes
*   `autoReadOnlyDisabled`: Disables automatic read-only mode for large notes
*   `appCss`: Marks CSS notes used to modify Trilium’s appearance
*   `appTheme`: Marks full CSS themes available in Trilium's options
*   `cssClass`: Adds a CSS class to the note's representation in the tree
*   `iconClass`: Adds a CSS class to the note's icon, useful for distinguishing notes visually. See <a class="reference-link" href="../../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Notes/Note%20Icons.md">Note Icons</a>.
*   `pageSize`: Specifies the number of items per page in note listings
*   `customRequestHandler` **and** `customResourceProvider`: Refer to <a class="reference-link" href="../Custom%20Request%20Handler.md">Custom Request Handler</a>
*   `widget`: Marks a note as a custom widget, added to Trilium's component tree
*   `workspace` **and related attributes**: See <a class="reference-link" href="../../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Navigation/Workspace.md">Workspace</a> for more details
*   `searchHome`: Specifies the parent for new search notes
*   `inbox`: Designates a default location for new notes created via the sidebar
*   `sqlConsoleHome`: Default location for SQL console notes
*   `bookmarked` **and** `bookmarkFolder`: See <a class="reference-link" href="../../Basic%20Concepts%20and%20Features/Navigation/Bookmarks.md">Bookmarks</a>
*   `share:[…]`: See <a class="reference-link" href="../Sharing.md">Sharing</a>
*   `keyboardShortcut`: Assigns a keyboard shortcut to open the note
*   `displayRelations` **and** `hideRelations`: Manages the display of note relations
*   `titleTemplate`: See <a class="reference-link" href="../Default%20Note%20Title.md">Default Note Title</a>
*   `template`: Makes the note available as a template
*   `toc`: Controls the visibility of the table of contents
*   `color`: Defines the color of the note in the tree and links
*   `hideChildrenOverview`: Hides child notes in the parent note's editor
*   `viewType`: Sets the view of child notes (grid or list)

## Relations